README.md, before:

# Export HTML to PDF Service

This is a simple Docker container that runs a JSON API service that allows HTML to be converted to PDF or PNG/JPG images. This service accomplishes this by using a [Chrome headless browser](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer) to ensure full rendering capabilities on par with Google Chrome.

_Security Note: This is intended to run as a micro service - do not directly expose to the public internet_

## Usage

```bash
docker run  -p 2305:2305 bedrockio/export-html
```

Or:

```
git clone git@github.com:bedrockio/export-html.git
cd export-html
yarn install
yarn start
```

## Generating a PDF

```bash
curl \
-d '{"html": "<h1>Hello World</h1>"}' \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
--output hello.pdf \
-XPOST "http://localhost:2305/1/pdf"
```

Now open `hello.pdf`

The default format is "Letter" (US) but it can be set to other paper formats like so:

```bash
curl \
-d '{"html": "<h1>Hello World</h1>", "export": {"format": "A4"}}' \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
--output hello-a4.pdf \
-XPOST "http://localhost:2305/1/pdf"
```

## Generating a PNG

```bash
curl \
-d '{"html": "<h1>Hello World</h1>", "export": {"type": "png"}}' \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
--output hello.png \
-XPOST "http://localhost:2305/1/screenshot"
```

Now open `hello.png`

## Advanced Options

Each API call allows Puppeteer options via `body.export`

- [POST /1/pdf](https://pptr.dev/#?product=Puppeteer&version=v8.0.0&show=api-pagepdfoptions)
- [POST /1/screenshot](https://pptr.dev/#?product=Puppeteer&version=v8.0.0&show=api-pagescreenshotoptions)

## Kubernetes Deployment Notes

This module runs a full browser and each request will open a virtual broeser tab. Many concurrent requests can increase memory usage signicantly.

Here's an example of a Kubernetes deployment that limits resources (this is used in production for generating invoices):

```
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: export-html-deployment
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      name: export-html
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: export-html
    spec:
      affinity:
        podAntiAffinity:
          preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
            - weight: 100
              podAffinityTerm:
                labelSelector:
                  matchExpressions:
                    - key: name
                      operator: In
                      values:
                        - export-html
                topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
      containers:
        - image: bedrockio/export-html
          imagePullPolicy: Always
          name: export-html
          resources:
            requests:
              memory: "1000Mi"
              cpu: "500m"
            limits:
              memory: "3000Mi"
              cpu: "2500m"
          env:
            - name: NODE_ENV
              value: "production"
            - name: ENV_NAME
              value: "production"
          ports:
            - name: http-server
              containerPort: 2305
          volumeMounts:
            - name: export-html-cache
              mountPath: /workdir/data
      volumes:
        - name: export-html-cache
          emptyDir: {}
```

An optional `SENTRY_DSN` environment variable can be configured to enable [Sentry.io](https://sentry.io/) error tracking.

## Credits

This service is based on the excellent [Puppeteer module](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer) and is maintained by Kaare Larsen.

Commit message:

feat(documentation): add information for helm chart

README.md, after:

# Export HTML to PDF Service

This is a simple Docker container that runs a JSON API service that allows HTML to be converted to PDF or PNG/JPG images. This service accomplishes this by using a [Chrome headless browser](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer) to ensure full rendering capabilities on par with Google Chrome.

_Security Note: This is intended to run as a micro service - do not directly expose to the public internet_

## Usage

```bash
docker run  -p 2305:2305 bedrockio/export-html
```

Or:

```
git clone git@github.com:bedrockio/export-html.git
cd export-html
yarn install
yarn start
```

## Generating a PDF

```bash
curl \
-d '{"html": "<h1>Hello World</h1>"}' \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
--output hello.pdf \
-XPOST "http://localhost:2305/1/pdf"
```

Now open `hello.pdf`

The default format is "Letter" (US) but it can be set to other paper formats like so:

```bash
curl \
-d '{"html": "<h1>Hello World</h1>", "export": {"format": "A4"}}' \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
--output hello-a4.pdf \
-XPOST "http://localhost:2305/1/pdf"
```

## Generating a PNG

```bash
curl \
-d '{"html": "<h1>Hello World</h1>", "export": {"type": "png"}}' \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
--output hello.png \
-XPOST "http://localhost:2305/1/screenshot"
```

Now open `hello.png`

## Advanced Options

Each API call allows Puppeteer options via `body.export`

- [POST /1/pdf](https://pptr.dev/#?product=Puppeteer&version=v8.0.0&show=api-pagepdfoptions)
- [POST /1/screenshot](https://pptr.dev/#?product=Puppeteer&version=v8.0.0&show=api-pagescreenshotoptions)

## Kubernetes helm-chart Deployment
There is a helm-chart available to install this application to Kubernetes. Checkout this [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/SERGO-GMBH/export-html-helm) for more information.

```
helm repo add sergo-export-html https://sergo-gmbh.github.io/export-html-helm/

helm upgrade --install html-export sergo-export-html/html-export
```

## Kubernetes Deployment Notes

This module runs a full browser and each request will open a virtual broeser tab. Many concurrent requests can increase memory usage signicantly.

Here's an example of a Kubernetes deployment that limits resources (this is used in production for generating invoices):

```
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: export-html-deployment
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      name: export-html
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: export-html
    spec:
      affinity:
        podAntiAffinity:
          preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
            - weight: 100
              podAffinityTerm:
                labelSelector:
                  matchExpressions:
                    - key: name
                      operator: In
                      values:
                        - export-html
                topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
      containers:
        - image: bedrockio/export-html
          imagePullPolicy: Always
          name: export-html
          resources:
            requests:
              memory: "1000Mi"
              cpu: "500m"
            limits:
              memory: "3000Mi"
              cpu: "2500m"
          env:
            - name: NODE_ENV
              value: "production"
            - name: ENV_NAME
              value: "production"
          ports:
            - name: http-server
              containerPort: 2305
          volumeMounts:
            - name: export-html-cache
              mountPath: /workdir/data
      volumes:
        - name: export-html-cache
          emptyDir: {}
```

An optional `SENTRY_DSN` environment variable can be configured to enable [Sentry.io](https://sentry.io/) error tracking.

## Credits

This service is based on the excellent [Puppeteer module](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer) and is maintained by Kaare Larsen.
